I don't really like
testing on the front end.
I like testing on the back end
because it's so simple, so easy.
This unit integration, mock everything
out is beautiful front end testing.
So painful, so painful like, I mean trying
to set up a testing on a framework is like
there's a new way every day,
and I just can't stand it.
But on the backend is super easy and
I'm glad to say with Apollo and
graphql, it's probably some of the easiest
server testing I've ever had to do.
It's like ridiculously easy.
So we're going to talk about
a few of those things.
But let's talk about the different things
that you can test and how you would test
on the graph do so resolvers,
how would you test resolvers and graphql.
Well, I mean they basically just function
right so you would do a test on them.
They're just methods on an object that
they literally know nothing about graphql,
they get past these arguments and
they execute something.
That's it, that's the visual resolvers,
they have no association with
the framework that's executing them.
They're just a map of methods it's
literally just testing those and
this is why I like to pass
everything in through the context.
Because when I'm testing them,
I can just mock that whole context
object out to be whatever I want.
And it just works versus like
having all these inputs and
trying to mock those out using something
like just or sign on whatever you want to
do, like I said, you just mock out
any data sources that you might use.
So if a resolver is talking to a res
client or if your resolver s talking to
a database, it's not important
that that red client is working.
It's not important that that database
is working, that's not what you're
testing right now, you're only testing
the business logic of the resolver.
So you can mock the other stuff out.
This is a unit test of the resolver.
It's not testing to see if the database
query works, you don't really need to know
that you might need to know if you pass
the right stuff to the database query.
But testing at the database responded
is not the job of the resolver.
The resolver expecting
the database to respond.
So and then yeah,
mock up all the DB calls.
And the next thing is testing a schema.
So basically, you can, there's a lot
of ways you can test the schema.
I mean, the most brutal way to test
the schema Is just to do this string,
Eagles this string.
[LAUGH] I do not recommend doing that,
that is so bad, but you can do it.
And I think in one case, we had to do it
at one point there was no other way to
test the schema that we knew of,
we learned a lot better.
But yeah, you could have like a string
that has tight definitions in it.
And another one in your test
like it's got to equal this.
And whenever you change your type file
someone fall you got to go change it
another file, but you don't want to do
that because then it gets crazy with
spacing and then you gotta try to
format it like just don't do it.
The best way is to convert
your TypeDefs into a schema.
So, for instance if you use that GQO
tag that converts the type definition,
the schema definition language into an AST
which is a JavaScript representation
of a schema so now you have an object.
Okay.
Now, you can compare that object to
another object so maybe that's a little
better than testing strains so
maybe use a GQO tag on
your tag definition.
And maybe have something else
hardcoded somewhere else and
you test it against that,
that might be a good way.
That's one way to test the schemas.
But basically, you can just unit test any
of the object types as well just to see if
they have the right field on them.
User has first name and
its type of string.
User has ID and
this type is ID unit test that
I don't see a lot of people unit
testing their schema, stop.
One thing that I see a lot but sometimes
depending on the application you might
need too and our example,
we had to because our app
generate a schema every time, so we had
to make sure that schema was correct.
So we have to test our schema, but if your
schema is not dynamically generated like
it's read in file like
we've been doing all day.
Testing scheme is probably
not that big of a deal,
you're probably more concerned
about it changing and
people adding things they shouldn't be
adding versus, it's passing a test.
So, you probably want to look at something
like Apollo's service where you can
lock a schema down and prevent it
from being changed without different
authorization rules and stuff like that.
Like a remote schema service that might
something a little more interesting.
Testing won't cover all those basis.
Yeah, and testing the server,
you have integration testing
of the entire server and that's
kinda we're gonna to be doing today.
And that basically is.
There's a lot of ways to do it.
We're going to do it the Apollo way.
First, I just started using the Apollo and
maybe a couple months ago, but
before that I use just like
this standard way, and
it still works like both approaches are so
good.
It really doesn't matter.
But yeah, you basically test the entire
service or like, here's a query.
I'm going to execute this query and
then I expect this result to come back.
Like you're testing the whole flow or
here's a mutation.
I'm going to ask you this mutation.
I expect this result to come back
through testing the typedefs.
So you're testing the query you sent up,
you're testing the schemer,
you're testing the resolvers.
You're doing all of it.
And then you get to pick and choose
what you want to mark out, if you will,
all of its around sure, make all
the run if not mark things out, and
we'll go over that approach.
And then the way you do that is
basically you create a test client to
use to issue queries and mutations with
against a testing instance of your server.
So because we don't have a client, we're
gonna create a fake client on the server
that would act as if it was a react or
graphQL playground.
And then we're going to create
a testing instance of our server.
Just like we created an Apollo server.
We're gonna create a version of that,
that's meant just for
testing and it's really cool.
From there, like I said,
you can mock out whatever you want.
variables, context, data sources.
Doesn't matter.